CSI5137C-Applications-of-NLP-ML-in-Software-Engineering

In software engineering, "social debt" is a colloquial term for unanticipated project costs associated with a "suboptimal" development community, wherein some of the characteristics noticed are challenges with coordination and communication. The presence of such inadequacies in the organizational systems can be determined by a marker, called Community smells. It is crucial to find and alleviate community smells, as they may well contribute to social debt. To address this, understanding the variability of the community smell, i.e., how various entities influence this factor to increase and decrease over time is needed. Additionally, the real predictive potential of such socio-technical measures is still unknown, though. In this study, we attempt to address this issue by conducting an empirical investigation by focusing on 4 community smells that are Organizational Silo, Black Cloud, Lone Wolf, and Radio Silence to (i) identify if there is there any correlation between 5 categories of socio-technical metrics— Developer Social Network Metrics, Socio-Technical Metrics, Core Community Members Metrics, Turnover, and Social Network Analysis Metrics and (ii) identify the possibility of predicting the variability of the community smell based on sociotechnical code metrics. Our dataset, which is made up of 60 open-source applications, is used to achieve this goal. The key results of our study indicate that Jrip and Bagging with J48 as a base classifier performed the best with above 80% accuracy for Black cloud community smell. Whereas, Random Forest performed the best for Radio Silence and Organizational Silo community smell. Finally, Jrip performed the best for the Lone Wolf Community Smell. This analysis will help the developers to reduce the community smells and therefore, improve the software quality which in turn reduces the rework cost in the future.
